1.1
https://www.exterro.com/basics-of-digital-forensics/chapter-2-the-forensic-investigation-process
https://www.eccouncil.org/cybersecurity-exchange/computer-forensics/what-is-digital-forensics/
https://www.simplilearn.com/what-is-digital-forensics-article#:~:text=Digital%20forensics%20is%20the%20process,be%20useful%20in%20an%20investigation.

Identification
This initial stage allows individuals or devices which are analyzed to act as likely sources of significant evidence. SIMPLILEARN The said evidence can appear in variety of formats e.g., text messages, documents, web search histories, and on a variety of devices such as computers, tablets. EXTERRO

Preservation
This stage allows for data to be isolated, stored, and preserved. This also includes preventing anyone from possibly tampering with the evidence. EC-COUNCIL The data can then be copied so that it can be analysed and investigated. This is very critical in digital investigations since the original evidence must be preserved in order to be considered permissible as evidence in court. EXTERRO

Analysis
This stage serves as a methodical examination of the gathered evidence. This examination provides investigators data objects such as system and user-generated files, and also seeks specific answers and certain points of departure for conclusions. SIMPLILEARN Basically the investigators recontruct fragments of data and form a holistic narrative of what happened during the crime or matter being investigated. Experts rely on the evidence and their experience and expertise. It usually takes multiple examinations and efforts to arrive at a satsfactory theory of the crime or matter that occured. EXTERRO

Documentation
This stage provides investigators with tried-and-true procedures for documenting the conclusion of the analysis. They should allow other competent examiners to read through and duplicate the results. SIMPLILEARN It also prepares a record of the data which will be presented either in the court or any other venue that the investigation is being resolved. Basically documentation forms a narrative recreation of the events in question, linking with the supporting evidence in the theory which should be compelling to an outsidr party that is charged with determining guilt or innocence. EXTERRO

Presentation
This is the final stage of the digital forensics process and it entails that investigators should summarize and draw a conclusion. EC-COUNCIL The most critical aspect of this stage is the collection of digital information, which may entail ejecting electronic devices from the scene and copying or printing the device(s). SIMPLILEARN The information from the documentation is then used by the investigator to explain whatever conclusion they have drawn about the event in question. Regardless of where the conclusion is presented, the investigator must translate their expert conclusions into a comprehensible narrative that even a non-expert can easily understand and judge for themselves according to the presented details and evidence. EXTERRO

1.2 
https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/privacy-guidance-for-organisations-and-government-agencies/preventing-preparing-for-and-responding-to-data-breaches/data-breach-preparation-and-response/part-3-responding-to-data-breaches-four-key-steps

CONTAIN
Since the data breach occured, the institution should immediately take action to limit the damage. This can involve stopping unauthorised practices, recovering compromised records, or ultimately shutting down the system. If this is not feasible, either the computer access priviledge should be revoked or changed, or the institution's security weaknesses should be addressed. In order to identify the strategies, the method of the brach should be considered, who has access to the personal information, and what can be done to secure it and reduce harm. If the breach is eligible under the National Data Protection (NDB) scheme, the entity may need to notify affected individuals as soon as possible. However, it's crucial not to destroy evidence that could help identify the breach's cause or address all risks posed to affected individuals or the entity. 

ASSESS
Assessing the data breach is crucial for the institution to understand the risks and how to address them. It should be conducted promptly and comprehensively, considering the type of personal information involved, the circumstances of the breach, the nature of the harm to affected individuals, and if remedial action can be taken to reduce potential harm.  Health institutions should also consider whether remedial action can be taken during the containment stage, such as recovering lost information before it is accessed. Health institutions subject to the National Data Protection (NDB) scheme are required to conduct an assessment of'suspected' eligible data breaches and take reasonable steps to complete it within 30 days. Criteria for assessing a data breach, including the risk of harm and remedial action, are explored in Identifying Eligible Data Breaches.

NOTIFY
Notification is a crucial mitigation strategy for data breaches, benefiting both the institution and the individuals affected. However, determining when notification is appropriate can be challenging, as it can cause undue stress or de-sensitize individuals. Each incident must be considered on a case-by-case basis to determine if breach notification is required. Health institutions are required to notify individuals and the Commissioner about data breaches likely to result in serious harm. Other circumstances may require notification, such as if an entity does not have obligations under the NDB scheme but has processes in place. Notification should include information, delivery, responsibility, and who else should be notified. If a law enforcement agency is investigating the breach, consulting them before making details public may be appropriate. Effective data breach response aims to reduce or remove harm to affected individuals while protecting the interests of the health institution. Notification provides individuals with the opportunity to protect their personal information, such as changing account passwords or being alert to potential scams. Staff should engage with affected individuals with sensitivity and compassion to avoid further harm. Notification can also help build trust in the health institution by demonstrating that privacy protection is taken seriously.

REVIEW
The health institution should review and learn from the data breach incident to improve its personal information handling practices. This might involve a security review, root cause analysis, a prevention plan, audits, policy and procedure changes, employee selection and training practices, and a review of service delivery partners involved. The OAIC's Guide to Securing Personal Information can be consulted for information management and data breach response. Lessons learned should be used to strengthen personal information security and reduce the risk of recurrence. A data breach should be considered alongside past breaches to identify systemic issues. Staff should be trained in any changes to relevant policies and procedures to ensure a quick response to a data breach.


Identification will allow, HealthNet, its patients and staff or their devices which are analyzed by the investigative team to act as likely sources of significant evidence. SIMPLILEARN The said evidence can appear in variety of formats e.g., text messages, documents, web search histories, and on a variety of devices such as computers, tablets.  EXTERRO In this case, the formats will include the patient records, which also include their personal identification numbers and medical histories.

Preservation allows for the patient records to be isolated, stored, and preserved. This also includes preventing anyone from the staff and patients of HealthNet to even outsiders from possibly tampering with the evidence of how the records were compromised. EC-COUNCIL The records can then be copied so that it can be analysed and investigated. This is very critical in digital investigations since the original evidence must be preserved in order to be considered permissible as evidence in court. EXTERRO

Analysis serves as a methodical examination of the gathered evidence. This examination provides investigators data objects such as system and user-generated files, and also seeks specific answers and certain points of departure for conclusions to the data breach investigation. SIMPLILEARN Basically the investigators recontruct fragments of data and form a holistic narrative of what happened during HealthNet's data breach. Experts rely on the evidence and their experience and expertise. It usually takes multiple examinations and efforts to arrive at a satsfactory theory of the data breach. EXTERRO

Documentation provides investigators with tried-and-true procedures for documenting the conclusion of the analysis of the data breach that compromised the patient records. They should allow other competent examiners to read through and duplicate the results. SIMPLILEARN It also prepares a record of the data which will be presented either in the court or even at HealthNet.  EXTERRO

Presentation entails that investigators should summarize and draw a conclusion of what they discovered while investigating the data breach. EC-COUNCIL The most critical aspect of this stage is the collection of digital information, which may entail ejecting electronic devices from the scene and copying or printing the device(s). SIMPLILEARN The information from the documentation is then used by the investigator to explain whatever conclusion they have drawn about the data breach of HealthNet. Regardless of where the conclusion is presented, the investigator must translate their expert conclusions into a comprehensible narrative that even a non-expert can easily understand and judge for themselves according to the presented details and evidence. This will also address the raising concerns about violations of privacy and any potential misuse of sensitive health information. EXTERRO



2.1 https://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/research_reports/RRA100/RRA137-1/RAND_RRA137-1.pdf
https://www.michalsons.com/blog/cybercrime-and-ai-same-threats-now-powered-with-advanced-technology/66038
AI
Even though AI is a technology that can be used to improve the livelihood of many individuals and make them more efficient, even criminals can have access to AI since it is also available to them. Cybercriminals use cutting-edge AI tools to orchestrate sophisticated attacks, breaching security defences like never before. It is now getting more complicated for organisations to keep up with the changes and new threat due to the advancement of AI and other technologies. As AI algorithms evolve, cybercriminals become more adept at bypassing security measures, adapting their strategies quickly, and exploiting vulnerabilities. MICHALSONS

Internet of Things
IoT is a set of applications, capabilities, services, and infrastructure that enhance the utility of new connected objects and devices. It includes wearable technologies, smartphones, and domestic appliances. However, the growing data collected by IoT devices could become vulnerable to theft, corruption, destruction, extortion, or sale. Additionally, IoT devices may increase the attack surface for cyber-dependent crimes and introduce new vulnerabilities in complex IT systems and environments. 

Telecommunications
Telecommunication infrastructure is the physical and digital infrastructure that facilitates information flow across the internet and devices. Technological advancements aim to increase bandwidth, reduce latency, and improve spectral efficiency, accelerating global connectivity. However, these advancements can also be used to enhance criminal activities' anonymity, speed, and capacity, or to extract sensitive data, or cause large-scale disruption.

Autonomous
Autonomous systems combine software and hardware devices, achieving their goals independently without external control. They can increase productivity, reduce costs, enhance safety, and access previously inaccessible spaces. They can also assist humans in complex tasks, expanding human capabilities. However, they can also be used for disguised criminal acts, developing new criminal tactics, or conducting large-scale attacks. This can complicate forensic investigations and attribution issues for crimes or incidents caused by autonomous devices.

Cloud Computing
Computing power and data storage technologies are essential for the capture, manipulation, and storage of data by IT devices. Advancements in these technologies include miniaturized supercomputers, AI computing, cloud systems, and holographic data storage. They power individual devices and enable complex operations by transnational companies and governments. The development of these technologies could facilitate data exfiltration, storage, and dissemination of non-consensual recordings and illicit data, as well as automate the detection of financially motivated but nonviolent crimes.


2.2
https://www.iseoblue.com/post/an-introduction-to-iso27001-information-security
https://www.isms.online/iso-27001/
Information Security Management System
This is a systematic approach to managing a company’s sensitive information. This component encompasses people processes and IT systems by applying a risk management process. The process helps organisations protect their information in a way that is efficient, consistent, and cost-efficient. It is crucial to establish an ISMS in order for organisations to aim at protecting their intellectual property, financial data, employee details, or any information entrusted to them by third parties. ISEOBLUE

Risk Assessment and Treatment
Information security risk management formulates the foundation of an effective ISMS, providing guidelines for performing risk assessment and treatment. ISO 27001 requires organisations to perform regular assessments to identify the information security risks associated with their information assets. Now, these risks will then be analyzed and evaluated to determine how they affect the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the information. After going through with the risk assessment, an organization should apply appropriate techniques to mitigate, transfer, accept, or avoid the risks. It is vital to document these risks and their treatment so that demonstrating compliance with ISO 27001 is straight-forward. ISEOBLUE

ISO 27001 Controls
The ISO 27001:2022 outlines a comprehensive set of ISO 27001 controls within Annex A, which outlines a set of 93 security controls, which are then grouped into four themes which include organizational, people, physical, and technological. It is designed to address various aspects of information security. These controls include measures for access control, cryptography, incident management and physical security, among others. When these controls are implemented, it will ensure that the organisation’s ISMS effectively mitigates risks and safeguarding sensitive information. ISMSONLINE

Statement of Applicability (SoA)
This is a critical document that clearly outlines the control objectives and controls that have relevancy in the orgainsation’s ISMS. This document serves as a declaration of which of the standard’s 114 controls from Annex A, which has been explained in the ISO 27001 controls section, have been selected and applied within the organisations. It also provides justification for inclusion or exclusion of these controls, which reflect how each decision supports the management of information security risks. The SoA has an insurance that all stakeholders are aware of which controls are implemented and provides evidence of the organisation’s commitment to information security. ISEOBLUE

Continuous Improvement
There’s an emphasis of the importance of continuous improvement by the ISO 27001 through the Plan-DO-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle. An iterative process will ensure that the ISMS remains effective and responsive to internal and external changes. Organisations can identify areas that require improvement and take corrective actions by continually monitoring and reviewing the system’s performance. This will not only enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the ISMS but also aligns the organisation's information security management practices with its evolving security landscape. ISEOBLUE


2.3 Explain the seven core principles that guide information security management under
ISO/IEC 27001. 
https://www.controlcase.com/what-is-iso-27001/
https://www.iseoblue.com/post/understanding-iso-27001-meaning-requirements-and-key-principles-for-effective-information-security

Confidentiality
This principle translates to data and systems that must be protected against any form of unauthorized access, from people, processes or unauthorized applications. This is enforced by using technological controls like multifactor authentication, security tokens and data encryption. What to understand abour confidentiality is that only the right people can access the information held by the organization. CONTROL CASE

Integrity
This principle allows for the use of processes that ensure that data is free of errors and manipulations, such as establishing if only authorized personnel has access to confidential data. This is done by vertifying the accuracy, trustworthiness, completness of data. Lastly, information integrity means data that the organization will use to pursue its business or secure effectively for others is reliably stored and not erased or damaged. CONTROL CASE

Availability
This principle typically refers to the maintenance and monitoring of information security management systems. It involves removing any restrictions in security processes, minimizing vulnerabilities by updating the software and hardware to the latest firmware, which then boosts business continuity by adding certain redundancies, and minimizing data loss by adding backups and disaster recovery solutions. When data is available, it means that the organizations and its clients can access the information whenever it is necessary so that business purposes and customer expectations are satisfied. CONTROL CASE

Accountability
This principle promotes an information security policy and establishes crucial roles and responsibilities for information security within the organisation. It also ensures that imformation security objectives align with the organisation's strategic goals. Lastly, it demonstrates commintment to informations security through active participation and support. ISEOBLUE

Compliance
This principle helps organisations with regulatory compliance, whn then ensures they meet various legal, regulatory, and contractual requirements related to information security and avoid any form of penalties and legal isssues. Organizations are provided with compliance certifications. ISO management system standards such as ISO 27001 and ISO 27701, are very crucial indemonstrating compliance with regulations like GDPR and enhancing organisational trust. ISEOBLUE

Risk Management
This principle focuses on identifying, assessing and mitigating any risks presented to an organisation's information security. This then ensures that any potential threat is systematically managed and appropriate controls are implemented to protect information assets. This will include selecting and implementing suitable security controls. ISEOBLUE

Continuous Improvement
This principle entails that organisations are required to review and update their ISMS regularly. This involves conducting regular internal audits to assess the effectiveness of the ISMS. Also, management reviews can be performed to ensure the system's continuous suitability and adequacy. Oragnisations can also implement corrective actions to address any issue that has been identified and prevent recurrence. It also involves organisations seeking feedback from stakeholders to improve information security practices. ISEOBLUE

3 
The TransUnion data breach posed many questions about the way financial institutions protect financial data such as customer records and their personal details. The breach also revealed the lack of protective measures enforced by the financial institution as the reason for the data breach. The following strategies will be used to mitigate any future data breaches of the global financial system. 

https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/what-is-multifactor-authentication-e5e39437-121c-be60-d123-eda06bddf661
https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-a-zero-trust-architecture#:~:text=Zero%20Trust%20architecture%20directs%20continuous,human%20and%20non%2Dhuman%20users.
The first strategy that can better protect the Global Financial System against cyber threats is enforcing stronger authentication and access control measures. The multi-factor authentication is one that prompts users to enter a second factor in order to identify the users after they initially sign in to the application or system. In this case, when logging into a banking app, in order to access the services provided by the app, the user will have to go through verification processes such as biometric access. This has to be done due to the evidence of the TransUnion breach which had a weak and guessable password, which led to the hacker group gaining easy access to the server. This is the reason financial institutions should implement multi-factor authentication. MICROSOFT They can also implement a zero trust architecture, which directs continuous monitoring and validation of these tools to ensure that the global financial system can provide secure deployment and service delivery. This then means moving from one-time, static access with implicit trust to dynamic authorization for continued access and proactive detection of unusual behaviour by cyber criminals. In a way, the zero trust architecture ensures that every device whether they have access to the network or not is not trusted by default. PALOALTONETWORKS  

https://torque-it.com/product/iso-iec-27001-foundation-including-exam/#:~:text=ISO/IEC%2027001%20is%20an,requirements%20and%20regulatory%20security%20requirements.
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.29.pdf
https://gdpr-info.eu/art-1-gdpr/
https://hyperproof.io/resource/cybersecurity-risk-management-process/#:~:text=manage%20risk%20effectively-,What%20is%20cybersecurity%20risk%20management%3F,Risk%20and%20Compliance%20Benchmark%20Report.
The second strategy will be to impose comprehensive cybersecurity frameworks. With adopting international cybersecurity standards, the financial institution must adhere to the internationally recognized cybersecurity standars such as ISO/IEC 27001, NIST Cybersecurity Framework, and the EU's General Data Protection Regulation which then ensures that they folloe the best practices insecuring financial data. The ISO/IEC 27001 will provide the global financial system with a model which establishes, implements, maintains, and continually improves the risk-managed information security management system. It also provides reassurance to sponsors, shareholders, and customers in the global financial system the ability to expertly control its risk managament. TORQUE The NIST Cybersecurity Framework will provide guidance to the global financial system to manage future cybersecurity attacks by offering a taxonomy of high-level cybersecurity outcomes that can be used by the global financial system to better understand, assess, prioritize, and communicate its cybersecurity efforts. NIST The EU's General Data Protection Regulation will provide the global financial system with rules relating to the protection of the masses with regard to the processing of financial data and rules relating to the free movement of financial data. GDPR They can also implement cybersecurity risk management, which continuously identifies, analyses, evaluates, and addresses any potential threats and vulnerabilities. 

https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/ai-in-threat-detection
https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/Incident-Response-Plan-Basics_508c.pdf
The third strategy will be to use advanced threat detection and incident response systems and mechanisms. AI and machine learning can help the global financial system detect new and complex threats quickly. By analysing data from the TransUnion breach, the algorithms can identify patterns and predict any potential threats, therefor improving the accuracy and speed of threat detection. There are two ways to use machine learning which include supervised and unsupervised learning. With supervised learning, the system will be trained on a labeled dataset, distinguishing between between normal and malicious activities and learns to predict outcomes based on input-output mapping. With unsupervised learning, since the model does not use labelled data, it will rather learn to identify anomalies, patterns, and relationships. It can detect unknown or emerging threats by identifying the deviation from standars baselines of what is considered normal. Now, advanced AI algorithms such as deep learning and neural networks can help the global financial system analyze vast data sets such as the financial data for any suspicious patterns using existing intelligence to improve their predictive capabilities over time. PALOATLONETWORKS With incident response planning, it is a written document, that will help financial institutions before, during, and after a confirmed or suspected security incident. This will help the global financial system as financial institutions have to provide detailed incident response plans in place. These plans must include clear communication strategies, and collaborations with law enforcement and cybersecurity experts to quickly identify and contain the breach before it becomes a major issue. CISA

https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/privacy/what-is-end-to-end-encryption/
https://www.centraleyes.com/glossary/data-minimization/#:~:text=The%20data%20minimization%20privacy%20principle,plan%20to%20utilize%20this%20data?
The fourth strategy will be to improve data encryption and protection. With end-to-end encryption, it will encrypt sensitive financial data such as customer records and transactions, both in transit and at rest. End-to-end encryption is commonly used in messaging platforms such as Whatsapp, which keeps messages private from everyone including the messaging service. When it is used, a message will only appear in a decrypted format for the user sending the message and the user receiving the message. The sender is on one end of the conversation and the recepient is on the other end. Hence the name end-to-end. Applying it to this case, all financial data will only be viewed by the customer and the banking app. Even if the data is intercepted by a cybercriminal, it will remain unreadable without the appropriate decryption key provided by the banking platform. CLOUDFLARE With data minimization and segmentation, the amount of data financial institutuions collect and store should be minimized in order for them to reduce the chances of cyber criminals breaching. This means that the data must be minimized to acheve a particular objective and ensuring that specific data is collected and procesed. This basically allows financial institutions to mitigate potential harm to individuals in the event that a future breach occurs since there is less data to compromise. CENTRALEYES Segmenting the data into many separations, as in smaller and isolated parts can assist in containing future data breaches to a limited scope, which will prevent financial data from being compromised. The idea of segmentation is to categorize the financial data, separate the most sensitive part of the data from the rest and define it as the financial insitution's protection surface, and then apply additional security measures around any protection surfaces that the institution has identified. DATAMATION

https://www.clarity-ventures.com/ecommerce/blockchain-technology-for-secure-transactions#:~:text=Blockchain%20technology%20for%20secure%20transactions%20ensures%20safety%20by%20leveraging%20a,almost%20impossible%20for%20unauthorized%20alterations.
https://www.techuk.org/resource/an-approach-to-quantum-resilience-navigating-to-a-new-frontier.html
The last strategy will be to emphasize on using emerging technologies for cyber defense. With the use of blockchain for secure transactions, it can do so by leveraging a decentralized digital ledger system that is resistent to tampering and fraud, and transparent. The technology records transactions across a network of computers, which then makes it almost impossible for unauthorized alterations and cybercrimes. It can also enhance trust and security within the financial system using its ability to be transparent and traceable. With quantum computing resiliency, which is a branch of Computer Science and Physics, it will use quantum mechanics and particle theory to calculate outputs from subatomic particles like protons and electrons. Quantum bits enable these particles to be in multiple states simultaneously. As quantum computing advances, it could potentially break traditional encryption methods, prompting financial institutions to invest in research and development to create quantum-resistant encryption algorithms for future security.


The global financial system faces a growing cyberattack threat, necessitating a comprehensive cybersecurity approach. Financial institutions must implement advanced technologies, implement risk management, and comply with regulations to safeguard sensitive data. Global cooperation among governments, private sector entities, and consumers is crucial for strengthening system security. Protecting against cyber threats requires policy, awareness, and collaboration across the financial ecosystem.
